=pod

=head1 WARNING

This is experimental software for the moment and under active development. I
hope to have a beta version available soon.

We use it fairly widely in-house, but it doesn't necessarily implement all of the specs.

Email me with anything you need done urgently.

Also: Check out Archive::BagIt::Fast if you are willing to add some extra dependendies to get
better speed by mmap-ing files.

=head1 NAME

Archive::BagIt - An interface to make and verify bags according to the BagIt standard


=head1 VERSION

version 0.047

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This modules will hopefully help with the basic commands needed to create
and verify a bag. My intention is not to be strict and enforce all of the
specification. The reference implementation is the java version
and I will endeavour to maintain compatibility with it.

    use Archive::BagIt;

    #read in an existing bag:
    my $bag = Archive::BagIt->new($bag_dir);


    #construct bag in an existing directory
    my $bag = Archive::BagIt->make_bag($bag_dir);

    # Validate a BagIt archive against its manifest
    my $bag = Archive::BagIt->new($bag_dir);
    $is_valid = $bag->verify_bag();




=head1 SUBROUTINES

=head2 new
   An Object Oriented Interface to a bag. Opens an existing bag.

=head2 make_bag
   A constructor that will make and return a bag from a directory

   If a data directory exists, assume it is already a bag (no checking for invalid files in root)

=head2 verify_bag

An interface to verify a bag.

You might also want to check Archive::BagIt::Fast to see a more direct way of accessing files (and thus faster).

=head2 get_checksum 

   This is the checksum for the bag, md5 of the manifest-md5.txt

=head2 version

   Returns the bagit version according to the bagit.txt file.

=head2 payload_files

  Returns an array with all of the payload files (those files that are below the data directory)

=head2 non_payload_files

  Returns an array with files that are in the root of the bag, non-manifest files

=head2 manifest_files

  return an array with the list of manifest files that exist in the bag

=head2 tagmanifest_files
  
  return an array with the list of tagmanifest files

=head1 AUTHOR

Robert Schmidt, E<lt>rjeschmi at gmail.comE<gt>
William Wueppelmann, E<lt>william at c7a.caE<gt>


=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-archive-bagit at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Archive-BagIt>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.




=head1 SUPPORT

You can find documentation for this module with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Archive::BagIt


You can also look for information at:

=over 4

=item * RT: CPAN's request tracker (report bugs here)

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Archive-BagIt>

=item * AnnoCPAN: Annotated CPAN documentation

L<http://annocpan.org/dist/Archive-BagIt>

=item * CPAN Ratings

L<http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Archive-BagIt>

=item * Search CPAN

L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Archive-BagIt/>

=back


=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2012, the above named author(s).


=head1 LICENSE

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
